---
layout: page
title: Programming guide
permalink: /:path/Programming-guide.html
nav: /:path/Programming-guide/
sort_idx: 20
---

Created by Pavlina Vlasenko on Jan 08, 2015

The intention of this guide is to introduce Kaa platform programming basics to you. You will have to roll up your sleeves with Kaa (at least so we hope), so come prepared. In order for the guide to be useful, make sure that you have a development environment set up, including a Kaa server instance. We recommend that you use [Kaa Sandbox](Sandbox) with this guide, but you can [use a Kaa cluster](Installation-guide) instead, if you like. We also recommend skimming through the [Getting started guide](Getting-started) beforehand.

For each of the Kaa functional areas, programming guide provides the following information:

* Introduction and a brief function overview
* References to the corresponding [design reference sections](Design-reference)
* Description of the required configuration and references to corresponding topics in the [Admin UI guide](Administration-UI-guide)
* References to relevant REST API methods in the [REST API documentation](Admin-REST-API)
* Endpoint SDK API description and examples of use for different platforms

# Integrating Kaa into your project

To integrate Kaa into your project, you first need to create an [application entity](Design-reference) within a tenant in Kaa. An application can be created using the[Admin UI](Administration-UI-guide#AdministrationUIguide-SDKgeneration) or [Admin REST API](Admin-REST-API).

Once the application entity is created, you can proceed to generating an endpoint SDK using the [Admin UI](Administration-UI-guide#AdministrationUIguide-SDKgeneration) or [Admin REST API](Admin-REST-API). Please note that by default the Endpoint SDK does not have any specific configuration for any of the Kaa functional areas. To make them work for your project, you will have to design and provision data schemas into your application. More details on this are available from specific guides on Kaa functions:

* [Collecting endpoint profiles](Collecting-endpoint-profiles)
* [Using endpoint groups](Using-endpoint-groups)
* [Messaging across endpoints](Messaging-across-endpoints)
* [Using notifications](Using-notifications)
* [Collecting data from endpoints](Collecting-data-from-endpoints)
* [Distributing data to endpoints](Distributing-data-to-endpoints)
* more guides will come soon

---

Copyright (c) 2014-2015, [CyberVision, Inc.](http://www.cybervisiontech.com/)

Document generated by Confluence on Dec 22, 2015 16:12

[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)